The President:
This week, I asked Congress to schedule a final vote on reform
that will give families and
businesses more control over
their health care by holding
insurance companies more accountable.
This comes after nearly
a year of debate,
as well as a seven hour summit
with Democrats and Republicans
where we had a public and
substantive discussion on health care.
Since then, I've said that I'm
willing to incorporate some
ideas offered by Republicans,
and we're eliminating special
provisions that had no
place in health care reform.
Now, despite all the progress
and improvements we've made,
Republicans in Congress insist
that the only acceptable course
on health care is to start over.
But you know what?
The insurance companies
aren't starting over.
I just met with some of them on
Thursday and they couldn't give
me a straight answer as to
why they keep arbitrarily and
massively raising premiums -- by as much as 60% in states like Illinois.
If we don't act, they
will continue to do this.
They'll continue to drop people's coverage when they need it.
They'll continue to refuse
coverage based on pre-existing conditions.
These practices will continue.
And that's why we
have to act now.
That's why the United States
Congress owes the American
people an up-or-down vote
on health insurance reform.
The proposal we've put forward
would end the worst practices of
the insurance industry, lower
costs for millions of Americans,
and give uninsured individuals
and small businesses the same
kind of choice of private health
insurance that Members of
Congress get for themselves.
And while it will take a few
years to fully implement these
reforms, there are numerous
protections and benefits that
would start to take
effect this year.
This year, small business owners
will receive tax credits to
purchase health insurance.
This year, thousands of
uninsured Americans with
pre-existing conditions will
finally be able to purchase coverage.
Insurance companies will no
longer be allowed to deny
coverage to children with
pre-existing conditions.
And they'll no longer be allowed to drop your coverage when you get sick.
This year, all new insurance
plans will be required to offer
free preventive care
to their customers --
so that we can start catching
preventable illnesses and
diseases on the front end.
There'll no longer be lifetime
limits or restrictive annual
limits on the amount
of care you receive.
Young adults will be able to
stay on their parents' insurance
policy until they're
26 years old.
And there will be a new,
independent appeals process for
anyone who feels they were
unfairly denied a claim by their
insurance company.
Finally, seniors who fall into
the gap in coverage known as the
donut hole will receive $250
to help them pay for their prescriptions.
What won't change when this bill
is signed this: if you like the
insurance plan you have
now, you can keep it.
If you like your doctor,
you can keep your doctor.
Because nothing should get in
the way of the relationship
between a family
and their doctor.
If we act now, all of this
will happen this year.
Millions of lives will improve.
Some will be saved.
Many families and small business
owners will have health
insurance for the very
first time in their lives.
Doctors and patients will have
more control over their health
care decisions, and insurance
company bureaucrats will have less.
This future is within our grasp.
But we also know what the future
will look like if we don't act
-- if we let this opportunity pass for another year,
or another decade, or
another generation.
More Americans will lose their
family's health insurance if
they switch jobs
or lose their job.
More small businesses will be
forced to choose between health
care and hiring.
More insurance companies
will raise premiums and deny coverage.
And the rising cost of Medicare
and Medicaid will sink our
government deeper
and deeper into debt.
I don't accept that future for
the United States of America.
I know it's been a long
and hard road to this point.
And we're not finished
with our journey just yet.
But we are close.
Very close.
So I ask Congress
to finish its work.
I ask them to give the American
people an up or down vote.
Let's show our citizens
that it's still possible for
Washington to look out for
the people's interests and the
people's future.
Thanks for listening.